# Spatio Temporal Analysis of Solar Energy in India

India needs to increase the contribution of renewable energy sources in energy production to cater the increasing demands of energy in a sustainable way. While generating energy using renewable sources, power generation forecasting is needed to prevent inappropriate operational practices and inadequate energy transactions. In this project, time series and machine learning forecasting methods are used to build forecasting models for Solar parks in Pokhran, Rajasthan and Bitta, Gujarat over different time horizons. The SARIMA, MLP and LSTM models were used to perform Daily, Weekly and Monthly forecasting for Rajasthan and Gujarat and their results were compared using MAPE and RMSE values. During the preliminary analysis, the mean GHI value of Solar park in Rajasthan was found to be greater than Gujarat but the coefficient of variance for greater for Gujarat. For the weekly forecasts, the LSTM models outperformed other 2 models for both the Solar Parks. For monthly forecasting, the SARIMA model performed better for Pokhran, Rajasthan whereas the MLP model performed better for Bitta, Gujarat. For daily forecasting, the MLP model performed better for Bitta, Gujarat whereas the LSTM model performed better for Pokhran, Rajasthan. The LSTM and MLP models consume much more computational resources than the SARIMA models. The training time for SARIMA model was significantly less than MLP and LSTM for small datasets but the accuracy of LSTM and MLP models improve drastically with increase in data points (i.e. from Monthly to Daily). For short term forecasting, the accuracy of MLP and LSTM models are comparable but MLP is more suitable as it has lesser training time than LSTM. For long-term forecasting, the SARIMA model is better due to its shorter training time with good accuracy.
